OFERTIE Phase 1 Experiments: 6. OpenFlow with IPv6 and Multicast
================================================================

Experiment 6 of OFERTIE's phase 1 experiments is a technology validation experiment to determine what IPV6 and Multicast (predominantly IPv6 Multicast) OpenFlow v1.3 implementations support.

This repository contains all you need to get an virtualised implementation of an OpenFlow v1.3 switch and controller up and running.  It also contains Python code to run tests against Mininet-generated OpenFlow v1.3 enabled networks.  This code makes use of network setups, iperf3 traffic simulations and datapath commands that can be specified in JSON to run automated and repeatable tests on various topologies.

OpenFlow v1.3 Switch and Controller
-----------------------------------

CPqD's of13softswitch is one of the most fully-featured virtualised implementations of a OpenFlow version 1.3, so i san appropriate candidate for performing this experiment.  Particular, as there is also a modified NOX Controller that supports OpenFlow version 1.3 that can be run alongside.


Iperf3
------
The standard package managed version of iperf is often quite out of date.  This source contained a more recent x86\_64 compiled version of iperf version 3 (iperf3) that supports the features required for running the tests in this experiment.


JSON
----
Network configurations, iperf3 traffic simulations (tests) and OpenFlow datapath controller commands can be define using JSON syntax.  Look in the examples folder to get to grips with the specific syntax for that has been used.


Results
-------
These can be produced in human or machine-readable format (CSV) by specifying 'machine'rather than 'human' for output\_type in the python test script.  

        sudo python ./tests/TOPOLOGY/TEST.py

        E.g. python ./tests/topo1/test1.py


Multiple iterations of machine-readable results can be generated by running the run-rests-repeated.bash script. You must also ensure that in the test script output-destination is set as 'file' rather than 'sys.stdout'.

        sudo ./run-test-repeatedly.bash TOPOLOGY TEST ITERATIONS
        
        E.g. ./run-test-repeatedly.bash topo1 test1 10

Results from these tests can be found in CSV format in results/TOPOLOGY/TEST/ in the form:

        Traffic Type,Bandwidth (MBits/s),Packet Loss (%),Jitter / Packet Retransmits,Local CPU Load,Remote CPU Load

Once you have produced enough iterations of results for a particular topology and test you can process these results to produces box plots of network statistics:

        ./process-results.py TOPOLOGY TEST
        
        E.g. ./process-results.py topo1 test1

Box plots produced by this script can be found in graphs/TOPOLOGY/TEST/png/.
